Hey it's Andre here.
I want to make a quick note about this on change event.
Let's demystify some of the code here now.
The first thing I want to point out is this on change remember is in J.S. sex.
It's not actual H2 you know.
Remember this diagram when the DOM changes or reacts to a user input.
In our case searching for a monster it's going to say hey there's an event somebody has just typed in
something into the input.
However where we act does.
Remember we don't manually touch the DOM.
If that were the case we would be using the on change event natively in our H2 amount using something
like this.
But because we're using J as sex and by the way if you're not familiar with ECMO events I will link
to a great resource that talks about this so you can learn more about them.
But again it's just something that the DOM gives us in order for us to interact with user events react
actually has something called synthetic events.
And I do recommend that anytime you have questions throughout the course to Google things and go visit
the react documentation because well they're the ultimate source of truth when it comes to react.
Now what are these synthetic events.
If we go back to our diagram when a dom event happens because let's say a user clicks or types something
in an input the DOM on change event is going to say hey something changed.
Now react intercepts that and says oh something has changed.
Let me go tell my react ad that something's happened and this is what a synthetic event is a synthetic
event.
It's kind of like a fake event that we pretend is a dumb event but it's something that will our ReACT
robot is telling us saying hey there was an event on the dam what should we do and this is our synthetic
event.
You see here that it's camel cased.
So it's not actual a shemale but a synthetic event on change that we use to detect whenever that damn
event happens.
We receive that event because something has happened and then we update the state.
Remember state is simply something that usually changes in our app due to a user action.
In our case the search field is going to change because somebody has typed in into the text box.
Now if we look at this code over here some of you might be asking why we don't just run this function.
If you look over here all we're doing is actually defining the function and not running it.
We could extract this entire piece of code and put it up here which by the way we will in a later video
because we're not running it here.
We're just saying this is a anonymous function that gets triggered on change.
And this is an important distinction here because you would never run set state in render because well
that's going to create some errors.
You can actually try it out for yourself trying to call set state and render because every time you
call set state it renders and every time you render it's going to call that state.
It's just going to create a loop.
So what we're doing here is we're actually defining a function not running it just letting them know
hey on change I want this to happen and react internally with this synthetic event is going to say Hey
any time on change happens it's going to be an event just run this function.
Now the last part is this over here.
Remember how you said that this doesn't get logged right away and that's because once again reactive
smart we're not actually interacting with the dumb what it's going to say is when we do set state it's
going to say hey react but we have some updates that we want to make to the dump.
Can you do it for us and our little robot is going to say yep I can do it.
But you know what.
I know when the best time to do that is I know when to do it.
Just let me handle it.
I'll take care of it.
So it actually doesn't happen right away.
What it does is essentially it schedules and batches work.
So if there may be multiple updates that need to be done then you can actually optimize that for us.
And that's why react good.
Right.
Because it figures out for us the best time and the best way to update the Dom we just tell it that
we want an update.
It's declarative but we leave that internal working to this little smart react board that's constantly
improving with new updates so that we don't have to worry ourselves with the dumb and that's it.
Let's go to the next video.